PageSize, Top and MaxTop() docs (#207)
MicrosoftDocs/OData-docs: Odata-docs/webapi/pagesize-top-maxtop.md

---
title: "PageSize, Top and MaxTop"
description: "This tutorial describes how to configure PageSize, Top and MaxTop."

author: KenitoInc
ms.author: kemunga

ms.date: 3/1/2022
---
# PageSize, Top and MaxTop
**Applies To**:[!INCLUDE[appliesto-webapi](../includes/appliesto-webapi-v7.md)][!INCLUDE[appliesto-webapi](../includes/appliesto-webapi-v6.md)]

In OData WebApi we support both client driven and client side paginations.

### Client driven pagination
In client-driven paging, we request the server to return the specified number of results. There is no `nextLink` that is returned.

The OData WebApi deals with client-driven paging using `$skip` and `$top` query options.

The `$top` query option requests the number of items in the queried collection to be included in the result.

The `$skip` query option requests the number of items in the queried collection that are to be skipped and not included in the result.

The `MaxTop()` sets the maximum value that can be set for the `$top` query parameter. It does not directly limit the number of items returned per request.

> In `Microsoft.AspNetCore.OData v7.x`, we configure `MaxTop()` as follows:

Reviewer: What about v8.x?

Author: This doc page is in the v7.x section. We can fix this when we add v8.x docs, or when we have a common section for both 7.x and 8.cx docs

```csharp
app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
{
                endpoints.Count().Expand().Select().OrderBy().Filter().MaxTop(100);
                MapVersionedODataRoutes<TModelConfiguration>(...);
});
```

> `MaxTop()` only impacts the scenarios in which the request Uri contains $top. If the `$top` value exceeds the `MaxTop` value, you will get an error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`MaxTop()` only impacts the scenarios in which the request Uri contains `$top`. If the `$top` value exceeds the `MaxTop` value, you will get an error message.
```

> For example, is we set MaxTop value as 20 and then pass $top query parameter value as 100, you will get an error message as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, `is` we set `MaxTop` value to 20 and then pass `$top` query parameter value as 100, you will get the error message shown below:
```

```json
{
  "error":{
    "code":"","message":"The query specified in the URI is not valid. The limit of '20' for Top query has been exceeded. The value from the incoming request is '100'."
  }
}
```

### Server driven pagination
In Server-driven paging, the server returns the first page of results. If total number of results is greater than the page size, the server returns the first page along with a nextlink that can be used to fetch the next page of results.

> We set in the `PageSize` in a controller method as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We set the `PageSize` for a controller method as follows:
```

```csharp

> [EnableQuery(PageSize =5)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[EnableQuery(PageSize=5)]
```

public IQueryable<Book> Get()
{

>     return _db.Books.AsQueryable<Book>();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return _db.Books;
```
I'm thinking the `AsQueryable` is not necessary since the method returns `IQueryable`

---
title: "PageSize, Top and MaxTop"
description: "This tutorial describes how to configure PageSize, Top and MaxTop."

author: KenitoInc
ms.author: kemunga

ms.date: 3/1/2022
---
# PageSize, Top and MaxTop
**Applies To**:[!INCLUDE[appliesto-webapi](../includes/appliesto-webapi-v7.md)][!INCLUDE[appliesto-webapi](../includes/appliesto-webapi-v6.md)]

> In OData WebApi we support both client driven and client side paginations.

Reviewer 2: I think what you intended to say here is that we support both server-driven and client-driven paginations, no?

Author: Exactly.
Fixed

> ### Client driven pagination

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Client-driven pagination
```

In client-driven paging, we request the server to return the specified number of results. There is no `nextLink` that is returned.

The OData WebApi deals with client-driven paging using `$skip` and `$top` query options.

The `$top` query option requests the number of items in the queried collection to be included in the result.

The `$skip` query option requests the number of items in the queried collection that are to be skipped and not included in the result.

The `MaxTop()` sets the maximum value that can be set for the `$top` query parameter. It does not directly limit the number of items returned per request.

In `Microsoft.AspNetCore.OData v7.x`, we configure `MaxTop()` as follows:

```csharp
app.UseMvc(routeBuilder =>
{

>     routeBuilder.Select().Expand().Filter().OrderBy().MaxTop(100).Count();

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    routeBuilder.Select().Expand().Filter().OrderBy().MaxTop(20).Count();
```
For those skimming the docs the error would look out of place. You could change the integer to indicate the maxtop of 100 was exceeeded.

    routeBuilder.MapODataServiceRoute("ODataRoute", "odata", builder.GetEdmModel());
});
```

`MaxTop()` only impacts the scenarios in which the request Uri contains `$top`. If the `$top` value exceeds the `MaxTop` value, you will get an error message.

> For example, if we set `MaxTop` value to 20 and then pass `$top` query parameter value as 100, you will get the error message as shown below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, if we set `MaxTop` value to 100 and then pass `$top` query parameter value as 150 , you will get the error message as shown below:
```
Keep it consistent for people who may skim over the docs and are just looking at the code snippets.

```json
{
  "error":{
    "code":"","message":"The query specified in the URI is not valid. The limit of '20' for Top query has been exceeded. The value from the incoming request is '100'."
  }
}
```

> ### Server driven pagination

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Server-driven pagination
```

> In Server-driven paging, the server returns the first page of results. If total number of results is greater than the page size, the server returns the first page along with a `nextlink` that can be used to fetch the next page of results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In server-driven paging, the server returns the first page of results. If total number of results is greater than the page size, the server returns the first page along with a `nextlink` that can be used to fetch the next page of results.
```

We set the `PageSize` for a controller method as follows:

```csharp

> [EnableQuery(PageSize=5)]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[EnableQuery(PageSize=2)]
```
For the sample response below to make sense...
